# Versioning Governance
Versioning of APIs is a good place to begin with governance efforts, ensuring that all APIs are applying a common approach when it comes to versioning each API. There are many ways in which you can govern an API and the operations around it, but there are few areas that will have a greater impact than standardizing how change is managed. Beginning with the governing of versioning allows for teams to get a handle on what it takes to change behavior across teams, and making an impact of operations before expanding API governance to other areas of operations.

Having a blueprint for standardizing versioning will begin with having an OpenAPI contract for each API in operation, then establish what the versioning strategy will be. Once a pattern has been chosen, listing in service of governance can be set in motion, and automated across operations in a handful of ways. Defining what versioning governance will look like across teams, but then bringing it to developers using the tooling they are already using to deliver APIs. Governing ho change will be managed across all APIs, ensuring each API has a version, and change can be effectively communicated with development teams.

You cannot govern APIs that do not have a definition, and OpenAPI is the preferred specification for defining the surface area of APIs. Any API being developed must have an OpenAPI available, either hand-crafted as part of a design-first approach, or generated from a gateway or code-first approach. With this definition, you will then be able to begin applying a consistent versioning approach, and then begin assessing whether or not versioning is being consistently applied across teams.

- OpenAPI - The OpenAPI specification provides a common vocabulary for describing the surface area of request and response APIs, as well as webhooks, ensuring that API producers and consumers are on the same page when it comes to integration, but also helps stabilize multiple areas of the API lifecycle providing a contract that can be used for delivering documentation, mocks, testing, and more.

Versioning
Before you can govern the versioning of each API you have to have a formal approach for how you will apply versioning across APIs. Picking one of the most common approaches to version each API, working out the implementation details of the chosen pattern, and providing guidance for teams around why versioning is important, and how to implement it. There are two primary approaches to versioning that are adopted across leading APIs, making it an easy choice to find the patterns you need.

- Semantic Versioning - Applying a dotted notion for defining major, minor, and patch versions of an API, articulating the different between a breaking change, and non-breaking or fixes to an API for errors that may have be introduced via previous versions. Providing a very structured way for defining, but also communicating change occurring with each individual API.
- Date-Based Versioning - Applying a date to each version of an API, marking each change of an API with a date, allowing consumers to adopt an API on a specific date, integrate with it, and choose if they want to upgrade to the next version based upon the release date. Providing a simple way for defining change, and then communicating it with consumers.

Linting
With an OpenAPI for each API, and a versioning pattern adopted, you can lint for this pattern across each API using a rules-based approach to governance. Leveraging the open-source tool Spectral to define a machine-readable rule that matches the versioning pattern adopted, and then ensuring the OpenAPI for each API possesses the pattern during design, development, and build time. Codifying governance rules, and then automating how they are applied to ensure that versioning is consistently applied across operations.

- Versioning Governance Rules - Rules can be defined to govern the information provided for each API, leveraging the OpenAPI or AsynCaPI contracts, but then apply specific ruling looking for common versioning patterns in the path, parameters, headers, and other details of an API, meeting specific guidelines regarding what information is needed.

Automation
With API versioning governance in place, it can now be automated as part of operations, ensuring the coverage of governance across teams. Providing the ability to lint for version governance rules, but eventually many other rules at the various stages of the lifecycle. Defining API governance in a centralized way, but then equipping development teams to apply it as part of their regular workflows, automating how governance is implemented, and pushing for 100% coverage of API versioning governance across operations.

- Design Time Governance - Governance can be applied and automated at design time, providing real-time or manually triggered application of governance rules, contracts, and scripts, providing a tighter feedback loop with API designers in regards to the guidance around what is expected of the design of each API.
- Collection Governance - A Postman collection for applying governance provides a flexible way to apply rules, schema, or script-based governance, allowing governance to be defined as modular collections which can be manually run by developers, scheduled using a monitor, or easily dropped into a CI/CD pipeline.
- CLI Governance - Governance can be applied at the command line interface (CLI) level, enforcing API governance locally during development, ensuring that APIs are 100% compliant with rules, contract, and script-based API governance established centrally as part of broader governance efforts.
- IDE Governance - Governance can be applied at the integrated development environment (IDE) level, enforcing API governance locally during development, ensuring that APIs are 100% compliant with rules, contract, and script-based API governance established centrally as part of broader governance efforts.
- Pipeline Governance - Governance can be applied at the pipeline level, enforcing API governance at build time, ensuring that APIs are 100% compliant with rules, contract, and script-based API governance established centrally as part of broader governance efforts, working to automate the testing of the surface area of APIs, and other parts of operations in service of platform-wide API governance efforts.
