# Integrate
Once ready, there are numerous ways in which API consumers will be developing against an API. It used to be enough to provide a variety of snippets or libraries in a variety of programming languages, but increasingly consumers are needing access to artifacts, collections, and other ways of visually developing their integrations or applications, pushing the boundaries of what is traditionally considered to be a desktop, web, or mobile application.

- **Contracts** - Machine readable contracts like OpenAPI and AsyncAPI help make integrate as simple as importing the contract for an API, authenticate, and then begin making the API calls you need to move data between systems, providing an artifact that define consumption.
- **Collections** - Provide forkable and executable collections that describe specific parts of an APIi that help consumers accomplish a specific digital capability, providing a buffet of capabilities for consumers to choose from when it comes to their API integration needs.
- **Automation** - Opening up automation opportunities, allowing collections to be scheduled and baked into the CI/CD pipelines, allowing common business capabilities to be executed, allowing business and technical stakeholders to do more with less through API automation.
- **Workflows** - Provide ready-to-go low-code and no-code options for executing common business workflows, allowing multiple internal, partner, and public APIs to be daisy chained into valuable scenarios that will help business and technical stakeholders integrate better.
- **Snippets** - Generating of lightweight code snippets in a variety of programming languages, doing most of the heavy lifting for consumers when it comes to integrating with APsI in the language of their choice, automating the more repetitive aspects of API integration.
- **SDKs** - Generating of complete software development kits, abstracting away the authenticaiton and other complex aspects of putting an API, or many APIs to work, helping reduce the workload for consumers, helping them integrate APIs into their applications.

Today’s API integrations come in many shapes and sizes, and requires a mix of approaches to satisfy the needs of the widest possible consumer audience. Moving us into a more modular, automated, and low-code/no-code reality when it comes to stitching together the thousands of APIs we need to do business today.
