# Test
The testing of APIs is something that should be shared with consumers, opening up the possibilities for user acceptance testing, a greater trust and understanding of overall reliability of a platform, and strengthens the relationship between API producer and consumer. The results of API testing, and even dashboards and visualizations can be shared with consumers via workspaces, repositories, and alongside API documentation and portals, going the extra distance when it comes to understanding the role API testing plays for both API producer and consumer.

- **Availability** - Sharing uptime and available information with consumers as a dashboard, helping make sure there is transparency around the operation of the platform they are depending on their applications, helping provide a historical accounting of availability.
- **Contract** - Exposing contract tests and even the results of schedule contract test runs, helping bring more awareness amongst consumers regarding the contract that exists for APIs, and how the validation of contracts can be used in their applications and integrations.
- **Performance** - Sharing performance tests and event the results of schedule performance test runs, helping be more transparent about the performance of APIs while demonsstrating that the platform has considered performance, and is taking step to improve upon it.
- **Security** - Making the overall security policy, as well as the security tests that are executed as part of regular operations, offering a more transparent look at how security testing occurs, and sharing results, helping create more trust with consumers when it comes to security.
- **Usage** - Ensuring that any type of testing for consumers is not considered as part of the usage they pay for, or shows up as part of rate limits, helping encourage consumers to help test an API, and play a role in the feedback loop around the overall availability of a platform.
- **SLA** - Providing an honest service level agreement (SLA) for each API, providing a pragmatic look at what the expectations are for services, allowing for beta, experimental, and less mature APIs, while demonstrating the production ready grade of other APIs.

To strike a balance between producer and consumers there needs to be a shared understanding the baseline testing occurring via a platform, bringing consumers into the conversation when it comes to API quality, while also holding producers accountable when it comes to talking about platform quality.
