# Future-Proof
Minimizing risk and making the future as predictable as possible is the desire of any enterprise organization, and the best way to protect any company against the future is to be able to respond to change and the unknown unknowns in an API-first way. Reducing the legacy baggage you possess, ensuring your teams are always iterating and innovating, while embracing and defining the shape and velocity at which the future arrives. Using APIs to more rapidly iterate and map out change as it is happening, allowing teams to respond to whatever comes your way, and come out of challenges ahead of the competition.

- **Innovation** - As an enterprise you are able to make innovation part of your operational DNA, with teams actively flexing their innovation muscle, experimenting, and engaging with consumers to find the busines value that shapes what is next. Moderning legacy infrastructure, delivering the services business today, while also innovating out ahead to understand what is needed for tomorrow. 
- **Agility** - Teams are able to respond quickly to market shifts, take what has been learn from regular day-to-day operations, but also via labs, experimentation, and other innovation, and respond with new products that meet a changing world. Taking the well-oiled enterprise API operations and responding to whatever comes next in small, quick, and well-informed iterations to the digital resources and capabilities needed.
- **Velocity** - Teams know what they are capable of, and are able to increase or decrease velocity as required by the business and consumers, providing just the right velocity needed to respond to shifts in the market, and move ahead of the competition. Velocity that will take a lot of training and experience, but with the right investment across the API lifecycle, teams will have what they need to respond to whatever comes there way.
- **Change** - Change is embraced in an API-first environment. It is expected, welcomed, and seen as the way. Teams are well-versed in defining, designing, and delivering API-driven change, and leveraging the feedback loop from these iterations to inform what is next. A Jobs to Done attitude equips everyone with a focus on the value present in change, and their training and confidence has prepared them for the work required.
- **Control** - Leadership has the control needed to not just understand the state of operations, but also the state of operations in relationship to external consumers. Providing the observability and control make adjustments, and the agile and responsive teams to move in the right direction. Giving enterprise organizations what they need to not just move and evolve forward, but in the direction they need to lead the way.
- **Adaptive** - Enterprise organizaitons are able to adapt to whatever is thrown at them, adapting and evolving to changing markets, and completely reinventing specific domains or the enterprise if required. Perpetually find the optimal state of doing business by employing an API-first approach delivering the products markets are demanding today, while also being prepared and in-tune with what is needed to lead the way tomorrow.

There is no way to predict the future, but APIs provide a proven way to respond to any possible future that may arrive tomorrow. APIs don’t necessary provide exactly what we need to do business tomorrow, but being in an API-first state means that we wil be able to quickly respond, evolve, and step up to confidently respond to what the future holds.
