# Innovation
Allowing for, and incentivizing innovation to flourish across all teams is important to provide the room for experimentation and engagement with API consumers in new and interesting ways. Without explicitly investing in innovation it can often go overlooked, whereas in reality it should be baked into the regular process and make a default part of the API lifecycle and how teams work together. Leaving innovation the default way that teams produce and consume APIs, but also making the API lifecycle much richer, consistent, and meeting business needs.

- **New APIs** - Encourage the development of new APIs, and a general acceptable and space for APIs that aren’t mature or accessible beyond the group that is developing them, allowing teams to quickly respond to potential demands, then validate with time.
- **Beta APIs** - Have a structure approach for defining and communicating around the maturity of APIs, making it acceptable to have unstable beta APIs, as long as there is a line of communication with all consumers, regarding the state and evolution of APis.
- **Experiments** - Encourage ephemeral experiments with delivering APis as well as the lifecycle and operations behind them, signaling to teams that they can play around with new ways of getting their work done, and it is acceptable for experiments to fail. 
- **Labs** - Establish a formal labs environment for graduating experiments to a more mature state with access to more resources, helping incubate APIs, stabilizing them for wider consumption, further validating that they are something consumers will actually need.
- **Collaboration** - Open up as many avenues for collaboration between teams, opening up new lines of communication, sharing, and experimentation between different teams, or even domains, helping get teams talking and working together to deliver new APis.
- **Feedback** - Gather feedback from teams while they are innovating, working to understand what has been accomplishsed, and what the vision and motivation behind innovation is, helping look for other ways to apply ideas beyond their original intent.
- **Change** - Innovation leads to higher levels of comfort with the unexpected and the change that is required for forward motion across the enterprise, helping teams build the skills and muscle to adapt, innovate, and find solutions to the challenges they face.

Innovation can be difficult in reactive and high pressure environments, and will be something that has to be invested in over time. Taking a certain portion of the gains realized from API-first optimization into free time for experimentation and trying out new ideas, so that over time, a significant portion of each teams time is spent innovating out ahead of the regularly planned road map.
