# Interoperable
Ensuring that distribute teams, federate groups and lines of businesses, as well as partners, and any other business construct that exists can be as interoperable as possible by default is the desired state of existence for any enterprise organization. While the desire to operate as a single entity may still prevail in some industries and organizations, the reality on the ground is more often distributed in both physical and virtual ways. Leaving interoperability is one of the top reasons for enterprise organizations to invest more into their API operations, ensuring their business can connect in many different ways whenever it is needed.

- **Distributed** - The more distributed the enterprise is the more of a demand for interoperability there will be, and the more teams will have the abilit to flex their muscle in operating APIs that are interoperable. As a business we are depending on more distributed services, which is something that we should be reflecting in how we operate our businesses, giving as much freedom and agency to teams as possible using APIs.
- **Standardized** - Always leaning on existing Internet and industry standards, adopting, iterating, and contributing to standards before we ever develop our own standards. However, in the absence of existing standards, enterprises should be in the business of evolving their own common patterns to the status of being a standard first across the enterprise, but then at some point possibly even within an industry they operate in.
- **Seamless** - Seeing all of our infrastructure and applications as part of a seamless web of business interoperability. Producing and consuming APIs as rapidly as business dictates, trying out new services, but then working to integrate them with our API platform using APIs–then iterating and evolving beyond whenever possible. Seeing all digital resources and capabilities as seamless and interoperable building blocks.
- **Event-Driven** - Designing enterprise systems to respond to the most meaningful events occurring across our platforms, but also the platform we depend on, allowing operations to response in real-time to what is happening across the market. Allowing not just applications, but our enterprise infrastructure to identify, subscribe, and respond to change as it is happening across the seamless platform we use to do business.

Interoperability in todays digital landscape isn’t just a nice to have, it is an essential part of doing business, and keeping up with the change happening across the global marketplace. Interoperability doesn’t put you at a disadvantage with your competition, it is the opposite, it is how you develop the muscles you need to outmaneuver and develop entire new categories of doing business today.
