# Productivity
Productivity is achieved in an API-first world through well-defined workspaces, that possess everything you need to engage with an API throughout its well–defined lifecycle. Organizing the enterprise API factory floor into productive workspaces that possess the artifacts, documentation, mock servers, environments, monitors, and other building blocks of API operations.

- **Workspaces** - Everything you need to engage with APsI is available via collaborative workspaces that posses the access controls needed to prevent undesired outcomes, ensuring not just APIs are discoverable, but everything needed to sustain and evolve APIs, allowing for turnover of teams without any disruption in how work occurs.
- **Collections** - The collection is a machine-readable, executable, and documented unit of work, providing everything you need to define a unit of business value in an API-first world, providing what is needed to define documentation, mock servers, testing, and the automation needed to validate, scale, and empower teams to do more with less.
- **Lifecycle** - There is a known lifecycle that allows all contributors to deliver the best possible API in a short amount of time, standardizing how APIs are delivered to optimize productivity, and developers have received the education and training they need on how to navigate the lifecycle, getting teams on the same page across enterprise domains.
- **Documentation** - Everything across the lifecycle is documented, not just the reference documentation for your APIs, but onboarding docs, workflow doc, and your mocks, tests, and other automation are also documented, turning workspaces into the institutional memory for what is happening across the enterprise.
- **Discovery** - All of API operations are discoverable, making teams, APIs, and operations available via search and discovery, ready for use across any stage of the API lifecycle, allowing teams to find what they need when they need it, helping make API operations more discoverable but also self-service, increasing the productivity of teams.

Teams aren’t productive in a chaotic environment where they can’t find what they need, and there is no common vocabulary for how things work, and a lack of documentation. Workspaces help ground the lifecycle, and collections help provide the atomic units of the enterprise memory over time, helping teams move forward and iterate and evolve the value an organization produces regularly.
