## Workspaces 
Like Repository has done for code over the last decade, API workspaces have become the essential way for not just organizing API artifacts, but also the operations needed around them to move them forward. Providing teams with a way for organizing everything you need to produce and consume APIs within a single business domain or project into a discoverable and collaborative workspace. 

### Contents 
API workspaces are often compared to Git Repository until you begin to understand how more precise and relevant to the API lifecycle the contents are. Each workspace contains APIs artifacts, collections used to power mock servers, documentation, and testing, as well as individual Environment for development, staging, and production Environment, and monitors for automating the production and consumption of APIs. Once you begin to see hundreds of individual API workspaces all equipped with what is needed to design, develop, deploy, and manage APIs, all existing and operating independently to orchestrate a single enterprise operation, you begin to see what a modern API factory floor looks like. API workspaces have everything you need to produce and consume APIs, through APIs and integrations these dedicated workspaces can be used to power enterprise operations using internal, infrastructure, and 3rd party APIs to operate the factory floor each day. 

- **APIs** - One or more APIs (defined as OpenAPI, GraphQL, WSDL, Websockets, or gRPCs) provide a machine-readable contract that can be used to guide the rest of the life cycle. 
- **Collections** - Collections define documentation, workflows, mock servers, tests, and other automations as portable and executable units of value to be used across the API life cycle. 
- **Environments** - Environments are key and corresponding value storage that is used to define the base URLs, secrets, and other variables you need to use across multiple APIs. 
- **Monitors** - A scheduled cloud runner can execute different collections, running tests, automated workflows and orchestrations, and automating applications and integrations. 
The types of APIs and collections you have in your workspace will vary from API to API, and project to project, with environments and monitors, used to help automate your API operations as a layer on top of your existing source control and CI/CD automation. 
### Access 
Access to API workspaces is key to defining enterprise operations, providing the ability to keep work around APIs private amongst internal teams, available to trusted partners, as well as fully opening up for engagement with public consumers. This level of control over the access of not just APIs, but also the work that is occurring around them is critical for us to move beyond the past anxieties regarding public and private API access. The question isn~t should we do public or private APIs, we must be doing both, and we need our API platform to support us in making this as easy as possible. Providing access to digital resources and capabilities is what APIs are all about, but being API-first also means you have full control over what is private or public, who has access to these resources, and you enjoy full access to what they have access to. Allowing enterprise organizations to be more confident regarding access across their operations, and lower barriers to entry when it comes to access to digital resources and capabilities without compromising the privacy, security, and reliability of operations. 

- **Private** - You can make workspaces accessible only internally within the enterprise, applying RBAC to the workspace, APIs, collections, and environments to maintain order. 
- **Partners** - Or you can open up workspaces to trusted external partners, sharing the work behind each API for collaboration to enable producing and consuming APIs in a shared workspace. 
- **Public** - You may decide to invite the public to view, watch, and fork APIs and the collections they contain, making not only the APIs, but the operations around them publicly available. 
The level of comfort with managing public APIs will vary from organization to organization, but private and partner APIs are a business reality in any industry. Having full control over the access layer to your APIs, as well as the operations around them is essential when it comes to enterprise digital transformation. 
### Engagement 
API workspaces are changing how API producers engage with consumers, dictating how teams within the enterprise work, and when a partner or 3rd party contributors will be able to join in the conversation. API workspaces give us control over the visibility of APIs and the operations around them and give us new insight into how teams are engaging with each other, and external codnsumers are watching and working with APIs, going beyond classic API management to drive engagement. Workspaces give us visibility into how teams are doing what they do and showcase the contributions of external actors when APIs are made accessible outside the firewall. API workspaces give us an entirely new approach that builds upon the developer portal practices popularized over the last decade, but then further expands and adapts it to the realities that exist on the ground of API operations today. 

- **Watch** - Watch your workspaces, APIs, and collections, pushing notifications to consumers whenever there is a change to help bring producers and consumers closer. 
- **Activity** - Activity includes any action across the team involving configuring APIs, documentation, mock servers, environments, monitors, and other API elements.
 
Workspaces provide a way to make APIs and the operations behind them more tangible to producers and consumers, and layer on top of existing source control, emulating a GitOps approach to redefining engagement within API communities and ecosystems.  
Workspaces provide a new abstraction for us to use to shape our API operations, providing a bounded context for our API operations and focusing on specific areas of the API lifecycle, as part of our governance, or other needs. Workspaces ensure that we have everything we need to produce and consume APIs across the many different digital resources we depend on. 
